contain-intrinsic-size - improve docs (#20912)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/contain-intrinsic-size/index.md

contain-intrinsic-size: unset;
```

### Values

Either one or two of the following values may be specified for an element.
If two values are specified the first value applies to the width, and the second is the height.
If a single value is specified it applies to both width and height.

- `none`
  - : The element has no intrinsic size in the given dimension(s).
- `<length>`
  - : The element has the specified {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}} in the given dimension(s).
- `auto <length>`
  - : A remembered value of the "normally rendered" element size if one exists; otherwise the specified `<length>`.

## Description

> Size containment allows a user agent to layout an element as though it had a fixed size, avoiding the computational cost of rendering the child elements to determine the actual size.

Reviewer: is the computational cost a performance cost? If yes, let's use that term instead. Otherwise, explain why this is an issue.

> Size containment allows a user agent to layout an element as though it had a fixed size, avoiding the computational cost of rendering the child elements to determine the actual size.

Author: Thanks. That is certainly more precise.

> By default, size containment assumes that elements have no contents, and hence may collapse the layout to zero inner height and width.

Reviewer: `and may initially collapse the layout as if the contents had no width or height`?

Author: Thanks.
```suggestion
By default, size containment assumes that elements have no contents, and may initially collapse the layout as if the contents had no width or height.
```

contain-intrinsic-size: unset;
```

### Values

Either one or two of the following values may be specified for an element.

> If two values are specified the first value applies to the width, and the second to the height.
> If a single value is specified it applies to both width and height.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If two values are specified, the first value applies to the width, and the second to the height.
If a single value is specified, it applies to both width and height.
```

- `none`
  - : The element has no intrinsic size in the given dimension(s).
- `<length>`
  - : The element has the specified {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}} in the given dimension(s).

> - `auto <length>`

Author: FYI @estelle , I find `auto` a little tricky. The theory is pretty simple - it saves the natural/rendered size of the element whenever it is outside of size containment and then uses that instead of the stated `length` when appropriate. 

What I don't get is why you would bother - the spec indicates this is only really used offscreen and will switch to using `length` for on-screen. I'm in discussion here https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/7769#issuecomment-1253011439 - might just be being stupid.

Author: FYI, I get the auto thing now; it makes sense and this documentation is correct.

The `auto` option is mostly to get the benefits of size containment for offscreen elements without developers having to be too precise about the size of the element. It makes sense when you're skipping rendering the child elements. You don't have to worry about the fact that the length will be used when you're not skipping child elements because in this case as the element becomes visible you leave size containment and start rendering them.

If you're on screen and deliberately getting the benefits of size containment then it is up to the developer to make sure that the size is properly calculated.

  - : A remembered value of the "normally rendered" element size if one exists and the element is skipping its contents (for example, when it is offscreen); otherwise the specified `<length>`.

## Description

Size containment allows a user agent to layout an element as though it had a fixed size, preventing unnecessary reflows by avoiding the re-rendering of child elements to determine the actual size (thereby improving user experience).
By default, size containment treats elements as though they had no contents, and may collapse the layout in the same way as if the contents had no width or height.

> The `contain-intrinsic-size` allows authors to specify an appropriate value to be used as the size for layout.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `contain-intrinsic-size` property allows authors to specify an appropriate value to be used as the size for layout.
```

Determining the correct size to specify for an element can be difficult, and odd layout effects may result if an incorrect value is used.
The `auto <length>` value can help.

> If the element is ever rendered with all its child elements (if the element is ever outside of size containment) then setting `auto` saves the size and can use it instead of the `<length>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the element is ever rendered with all its child elements (if the element is ever outside of size containment), setting `auto` saves the size, which can be used instead of the `<length>`.
```

> In particular this is recommended with [`content-visibility: auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility) as elements are only in size containment when offscreen, and will hence may have a remembered value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In particular, this is recommended with [`content-visibility: auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility), as elements are only in size containment when offscreen, and hence may have a remembered value.
```
